# 1
## a
8 bits --> 1 byte
8000 bits --> kilobyte
1000 kilobytes --> 1 megabyte
1024 mebibytes --> 1 gibibyte
8192 bits --> 1 kibibyte
 $$\frac{2^{13}}{2^3 \times 2^{10}}$$
## b
### i
my working is carrying bits.
$$\begin{matrix}
\ \ \ \ 10101010
\\
+\ 00110111 \\
\end{matrix}$$
$$=1110 0001$$

### ii
The carry/overfow bit flag is on after the addition. When adding two binary integers, of size, $n$, bits: the resultant sum can be of a greater size than $2^{n-1}$. In this case, an overflow occurs.

## c
$$F0=15\times4^2+0\times4^1=240$$

# 2
## a
data security is the protection of data such that it is not deleted or corrupted by malicious viruses or hackers. 

Data integrity is a feature of data. It means that the data has not been altered or changed and is the newest version of what its intended to be. It is confirmed to be from the source which it claims to be from. The data is what the owner intended it to be.


## b
### i
Data validation is a technique used to ensure the data entered is an acceptable value in a program. For example, if a program asks for an age, the data validation stage of the program will check that the age entered is a number (type check) (such as `89` instead of `eighty-nine`). The data validation module may also do a presence check, ensuring the user entered something.

### ii
Data verification is a technique used to ensure the data entered is a reasonable value. For example, if a program asked for user input for their age, it might consist of a range check ensuring that $0 \leq \text{age} \leq 150$.

## c
$$\text{spyware} \in \text{virus} \text{, no?}$$
is spyware not a subset of a virus or is that false?

Similarity 1:
viruses and spyware are both types of malicious software that is executed on the victim's computer.

Similarity 2:
viruses and spyware are both 

Difference:
Spyware will collect data (such as keystrokes) from the user and send it back to the creators of the spyware. Viruses, conversely, will obstruct the user's use of their computer device and potentially corrupt or delete files. So, spyware is a passive observer which collects data and sends it, whilst viruses will actually interfere and corrupt/delete files/memory on a users computer device.

# 3
## a
$$((A \bullet B) \bigoplus C) + \overline B$$

## b
| A | B | C |$D=A \bullet B$  | $E=D \bigoplus C$  | $\overline B$ | $\overline B + E$ | X |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 |
| 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |

## c
NAND

Symbol:
AND gate with a non-filled circle on the right side of it.

Imagine a square, however, the right side of the square (the right two edges) are instead rounded to make it look like some sort of fat bullet shape.

Truth Table:

| A | B | Output |
|---|---|   ---  |
| 0 | 0 |    1   |
| 0 | 1 |    1   |
| 1 | 0 |    1   |
| 1 | 1 |    0   |

# 4
## a
- he can act ethically and support the computer science community.
- a professional ethical body allows for great cooperational strategies.
- he is immune from critiscism of his actions as he is part of a professional ethical body.

## b
### i
Francis can:
- ask for help from his higher-up and take up a course or training to learn the required skills.
- not accept the job if he is sure that he is underqualified to complete the task within the company's deadlines.

### ii
1. code completion which allows the programmers to not have to remember function names (of other libraries or even their own code) exactly when writing code.
2. error highlighting. Errors are checked for frequently and reported to the programmer as they are writing the program. 
3. (syntax highlighting). Syntax is highlighted with different colors for easier reading of the code.

## c
The error may be a security vulnerability for the end-user. Francis may have caused a major loss of revenue for the company if end-users are unhappy due to this error. By not telling anybody he doesn't allow it to be fixed. Francis should of followed the ethical code of ___(INSERT ETHICAL CODE NAME HERE)___ which states that honesty is key.

## d
**Compilers** are usually used when a high-level language program is complete. They translate all the code at the same time and then run the program. They produce **executable (binary)** files that can be run without the source code. **Translators** translate one line of a high-level language program at a time, and then run that line of code. They are most useful while developing the programs because errors can be corrected and then the program continues from that line. Assemblers are used to translate assembly code into machine code.

# 5
## a
MANAGER | ManagerID           --> Primary key
SHOP    | ManagerID           --> Foreign Key
CAR     | Registration Number --> Primary Key
CAR     | ShopID              --> Foreign Key

## b
- access rights can prevent people from changing data within the database if they are only supposed to read the data rather than to manipulate/update it.
- access rights can prevent anybody from accessing the database except people explicitly specified (whitelist).

## c
### i
SELECT COUNT (ShopID)
FROM CAR
IN ShopID

### ii
UPDATE TABLE CAR
ADD ("...")

# 6
## a
Line number 2:
The Program Counter (PC) should be incremented, rather than being decremented, so that the next instruction can be executed on the next fetch-execute cycle.
$$\text{PC} \leftarrow [\text{PC}] + 1$$

Line number 3:
The Memory Data Register (MDR) should contain the value at the address (of the instruction) which the MAR (memory address register) contains, rather than the address itself. 
$$\text{MDR} \leftarrow [[\text{MAR}]]$$

## b
$$1111 1111: 1111 1111$$
$$0000 0000: 0000 1111$$
$$1010 1010: 0010 1010$$
$$0101 0101: 0000 0000$$

# 7
## a
### i
a higher sample rate means amplitudes of sound are recorded at a greater frequency. The greater the frequency, the more data there is which represents the actual sound. Thus, our ears can interpret the sound easier. Sound is analog/continouous, whilst digitally recording it, converts it into a digital approximation of the sound with the amplitude of the soudn recorded every $x$ seconds. Thus, the lower $x$ is (consequently, the higher the frequency of samples are), the closer it will sound to its analog counterpart. I.e., the greater the frequency of samples, the greater the digital approximation is of analog sound.

### ii
More samples are recorded with the same bit-depth, thus, more data is recorded so the file size is greater. For example, if $200$ samples are recorded with $x$ amount of bytes used to represent the amplitude for each sample, then the file size will be $200x$. However, if $5000$ samples are recorded in the same time with the same number of bits used to represent the amplitude of each sample, then the file size will be $5000x$.

## b
### i
Compressing the file decreases the file size for faster transmission of his file over any network.

### ii
Loseless compression may use an algorithm such as RLE (run-length encoding) to group repeated patterns of amplitudes and represent them with the data required to store a single instance of the repeated pattern and a number of repeated units of this pattern. This means a single sample and a number are stored instead of the same sample repeated many times. 

# 8
## a
The network will be a LAN as it can be easily setup throughout a single building. This allows files to be transfered throughout any device within the school building. This is more secure as a wide area network will allow other devices outside of the school to potentially modify or read data which is being sent over the school network.

## b
1. Hub to which all the computers are connected to via Wi-Fi.
2. Switch to which all the computers are connected to via Ethernet cables.

## c
- It sends and receives packets of data from the computer device via a wireless medium (such as Wi-Fi).
- it is part of the 'Physical Layer' in the 'TCP/IP' protocol stack.
- it interacts with the operating system kernel to transmit data it receives to user-space (applications/programs).
- it will send radio signals in order to receive/send data wirelessly.
